# Stages of Data Science Methodology

1. The primary goal of the **Business Understanding** stage is to understand the business problem and determine the data needed to answer the core business question. 
2. During the **Analytic Approach** stage, you can choose from descriptive diagnostic, predictive, and prescriptive analytic approaches and whether to use machine learning techniques.
3. During the **Data Requirements** stage, scientists identify the correct and necessary data content, formats, and sources needed for the specific analytical approach.
4. During the **Data Collection** stage, expert data scientists revise data requirements and make critical decisions regarding the quantity and quality of data. Data scientists apply descriptive statistics and visualization techniques to thoroughly assess the content, quality, and initial insights gained from the collected data, identify gaps, and determine if new data is needed, or if they should substitute existing data.
5. The **Data Understanding** stage encompasses all activities related to constructing the data set. This stage answers the question of whether the collected data represents the data needed to solve the business problem. Data scientists might use descriptive statistics, predictive statistics, or both. Data scientists commonly apply Hurst, univariate, and statistics such as mean, median, minimum, maximum, standard deviation, pairwise correlation, and histograms. 
6. During the **Data Preparation** stage, data scientists must address missing or invalid values, remove duplicates, and validate that the data is properly formatted. Feature engineering and text analysis are key techniques data scientists apply to validate and analyze data during the Data Preparation stage.
7. The end goal of the Modeling stage is that the data model answers the business question. During the **Modeling** stage, data scientists use a training data set. Data scientists test multiple algorithms on the training set data to determine whether the variables are required and whether the data supports answering the business question. The outcome of those models is either descriptive or predictive. 
8. The **Evaluation** stage consists of two phases, the diagnostic measures phase, and the statistical significance phase. Data scientists and others assess the quality of the model and determine if the model answers the initial Business Understanding question or if the data model needs adjustment. 
9. During the **Deployment** stage, data scientists release the data model to a targeted group of stakeholders, including solution owners, marketing staff, application developers, and IT administration., 
10. During the **Feedback** stage, stakeholders and users evaluate the model and contribute feedback to assess the model’s performance. The data model’s value depends on its ability to iterate; that is, how successfully the data model incorporates user feedback.